State can be complex and it's important to understand this to understand which problems state management
solutions like redux actually solve.
If we had an app like this which is not the app we built but which could be an app you're building where
you have two different areas one where you manage your users where users can sign in where users can
manage their dashboards see their dashboard IDs on and one where you have products and a list which
users can add to a card.
Then these areas are actually not totally independent but in your app they will be rendered on different
screens so pretty separated from each other.
But the question whether a user is signed in which you need here might also be relevant in another part
of your application.
And right now you normally would have to pass that data around manually through props but passing it
from component A to B to C to D all the way up to E where you'd then maybe need this.
That's not really very convenient.
Instead you want to have an application setup where something changes for example a user signs in or
in our meals app.
You set a certain filter and you save that and then this information is kind of propagated to your app
and automatically passed to the places where you need it but not through props.
But with some behind the scenes mechanism that helps you regarding this and that's where redux is a
common solution we use in react and react native apps to manage that state.
Now how does redux work.
First of all redux as a third party library which you can add to react native to use it there and it's
all about having a central store redux introduces a central store in memory not a database but it's
in memory and JavaScript memory so to say where your application state so to date different parts of
your app depend on can be stored in and then when in one component you have something that wants to
manipulate that state.
For example we're setting a filter or we're marking a meal as a favorite.
We then dispatch a so-called action that's pre-defined information package she would say having a certain
schema which can be handled by redux as configured by you.
This action reaches a so-called reducer and you will be the one writing that reducer.
As a developer so you can control which kind of action every user accepts.
So which kind of information package your reducer requires and that reducer then receives the action
and derives a new state based on the old state which then updates is centrally stored state so the reducer
is there to update the state in the end.
And when dead store changes when the state and their changes you can alter have subscriptions to that
store from other components D subscriptions will be triggered when you're stored when your state to
are changes and the updated state is then passed on to the places in your app.
So to the components who are interested in these changes.
For example this component here could be interested in some updates while then it can set up a subscription
and it will be informed about the update and get.
Didn't you state through its props or also with react hooks as you will learn in this module.
This is how redux works and that's the idea behind redux.
Now one important note if you're a bit further into react you all do probably know D react context API
which is built into react.
This can also be used for some behind the scenes state and data management but it's not a good replacement
for all use cases where you use redux.
I'll not dive deeper into this here because this isn't really a course about the in and outs of different
react constructs instead we want to learn react native here but attached you find some resources that
help you with that comparison between react context API and redux and when to use which in this module
we'll use regex which is very flexible which you can definitely use and I will show you how to set it
up with react native and how you then of course may work with it.